§ 9822.11 So in original. No section 9821 has been enacted. Other patient protections(a) Choice of health care professionalIf a group health plan requires or provides for designation by a participant or beneficiary of a participating primary care provider, then the plan shall permit each participant and beneficiary to designate any participating primary care provider who is available to accept such individual.


(b) Access to pediatric care(1) Pediatric careIn the case of a person who has a child who is a participant or beneficiary under a group health plan if the plan requires or provides for the designation of a participating primary care provider for the child, the plan shall permit such person to designate a physician (allopathic or osteopathic) who specializes in pediatrics as the child’s primary care provider if such provider participates in the network of the plan.


(2) ConstructionNothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to waive any exclusions of coverage under the terms and conditions of the plan with respect to coverage of pediatric care.



(c) Patient access to obstetrical and gynecological care(1) General rights(A) Direct accessA group health plan described in paragraph (2) may not require authorization or referral by the plan, issuer, or any person (including a primary care provider described in paragraph (2)(B)) in the case of a female participant or beneficiary who seeks coverage for obstetrical or gynecological care provided by a participating health care professional who specializes in obstetrics or gynecology. Such professional shall agree to otherwise adhere to such plan’s policies and procedures, including procedures regarding referrals and obtaining prior authorization and providing services pursuant to a treatment plan (if any) approved by the plan.


(B) Obstetrical and gynecological careA group health plan described in paragraph (2) shall treat the provision of obstetrical and gynecological care, and the ordering of related obstetrical and gynecological items and services, pursuant to the direct access described under subparagraph (A), by a participating health care professional who specializes in obstetrics or gynecology as the authorization of the primary care provider.



(2) Application of paragraphA group health plan described in this paragraph is a group health plan that—(A) provides coverage for obstetric or gynecologic care; and

(B) requires the designation by a participant or beneficiary of a participating primary care provider.


(3) ConstructionNothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to—(A) waive any exclusions of coverage under the terms and conditions of the plan with respect to coverage of obstetrical or gynecological care; or

(B) preclude the group health plan involved from requiring that the obstetrical or gynecological provider notify the primary care health care professional or the plan or issuer of treatment decisions.



(Added Pub. L. 116–260, div. BB, title I, § 102(c)(2), Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2795.)

Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries
Effective DateSection applicable with respect to plan years beginning on or after Jan. 1, 2022, see section 102(e) of div. BB of Pub. L. 116–260, set out as an Effective Date of 2020 Amendment note under section 8902 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.